When dealing with data in tuples, you can
make the code more readable by
using named tuples. In this video, we're going
to have a quick look at these named
tuples, what they are and also how
to create them. Now there's some good
documentation, if we swing over to the
Python website. We've got
some information here relating to named
tuples, and this will be a good thing
for you to read because it does explain
them well, so I suggest you check that out
after you've been through this video.
One thing I would like to point out,
though, is that just before the change history
in example down here, this comment here,
and it talks about the fact that named
tuples are lightweight and require no
more memory than regular tuples. And that
is certainly true. They do need a bit
more work to create, but not a lot.
So let's see how to use them in a
Python program. So you should have downloaded
data.py from the resources
section of the last video. So go ahead and
grab that if you haven't got that already,
and we'll go back to finder, in my case
on a Mac.  We'll go to Windows Explorer
if you're on a Windows machine. Take a copy
of that downloaded file, swing back
to IntelliJ and we're going to right
click and paste to bring that file into
Python. And in this video, we're going
to be using plant based tuples, named tuples.
You can see examples of those on
lines 15 and 16, but there is also
a people list at the start there, on line 3.
We'll be using that in the next video.
So how do we actually use named
tuples? Well firstly, as you can see,
on line 1 here in our data.py, we're
importing named tuple from the
collections module. So that lets us
create named tuples, as you've
probably guessed.
Now before creating a named tuple, we have
to define what the names are, and again
you can see in lines 15 and 16
we've defined two named tuples; plant and plant
details. The first argument to named tuple
is the type name as a string. I can't see
any reason to make that different to the
name that we assign the result to, but
you can if you want,
if causing confusion is your thing.
So I'll change the first plant on line 15
to P, and if we scroll down and have a
look,
notice on line 42 down here, we've now
got errors where I've used plant, and
that confirms it's the returned object
that we need to use when creating our
named tuples. Because if you go back now
to line 15 again, if we undo that change,
and instead change the second plant to P,
this one here, let's scroll down and have a look,
we're not getting any errors. So you can
do that, you can make them different if
you want,
again if causing confusion is your thing,
I suggest you go ahead and do that, but
seriously, I can't see any reason to make
those different. So generally, they'll be
the same. So what we've done here then,
on line 15, we've created the new name
tuple using plant but their type is P.
Now to see why that's confusing,
I won't undo that change just yet.
What we'll do is create a new Python file
in the project, and we call this one named
tupletest, and we'll go ahead and type
some code in here; so line one, from data
import basic_plants underscore
list, comma then plants_list.
On line three, we're gonna type
print parentheses plants underscore list left
square bracket zero right square
bracket, then closing parentheses. So I put the
data in data.py to save having
to type it in again, and also so that we
could reuse it in different example
programs. So the code, as you can see, we
start by importing the two tuples,
basic_plants underscore
list is a list of ordinary tuples,
and plant_list is a list of
named tuples. So if we run the program,
you can see down the bottom, it shows the
first item as being of type P.
So everything works.  It's just confusing to
create something of type P when we use
plant to create it.  So don't do it
unless you've got a really good reason to do so.
I'm gonna switch back to data.py
and I'm just going to undo that change now. OK.
Alright, so that was the first
argument. Now the second argument is
just a list of the names we want to use for
each of the fields
in the named tuple. Now these names must
conform to the rules for Python variable
names, with the added restriction that
they can't start with an underscore,
and that's mentioned in the documentation we
looked at earlier. So in this case, on
line 15, our plant named tuple has
four fields: name, scientific_name,
lifecycle and plant_type.
Now the plant details tuple, on line 16, is
the same but it doesn't have a name
field. That's because it's used in a
dictionary and the name is the
dictionary key, and we can see that if we
go down and have a look at that on line
64 onwards. You can see there
the dictionary set up and the name of being
the key. Now getting back to our
definitions on lines 15 and 16, on line
15 specifically, you can see here that
I used a list to specify the field names.
However, Python also allows a space or
comma separated string, and that can be
useful if you're reading the data from a
file, for example.  So to see what I mean, I
can change that line now, by removing the
left and right square brackets, as well
as the internal apostrophes. So obviously,
leave the one on the left of name. I'll
leave that as it is there, but delete the
rest of them, and you can see they've
removed all the apostrophes
now, and we're just left with an
apostrophe at the start to the left of
name, and to the right of plant_type.
So if we go back,
now, to namedtupletest.py that we
created, we can print the names from our
basic_plants_list
with a for loop. So let's
go ahead and do that. We'll add that code
from line 5 onwards. So I'm going to type for plant in basic_plant_list.
On the next line, after the colon, print plant zero,
and if you run that, no surprises - we get the names
of the plants printed out, and we can
maybe put this over here on the right
hand side,
just so we can see the names a bit
easier. We could do the same with a named
tuple but we can also use the field
name instead. So to do that we just use
dot notation, just as if it was an
attribute of a class instance. So I can
just comment that code out now, on lines
five and six, and on line eight, we'll
start by typing for plant in plants_list
colon, print, plant and
using dot notation, dot and name.
This makes the code more readable, and we
don't have to remember that the name
appears in position zero of the tuple.
So if you run that, we get the same
output. Now we can still use an index if
you want to, but it really doesn't make a
lot of sense. Plant.scientific_name
will give us the second field but
we could also do plant left square
bracket one right square bracket, run, and
see both fields like that.
You can see we're getting the first two
fields printed there. You wouldn't write
code like this, mixing field names
and indexes, but it can be useful to use the
index sometimes, if it's in a loop
control variable, for example. The point
here though is, we don't lose anything
that can be done with ordinary tuples -
we get extra features with named tuples.
named tuples support all the operations
that you can perform on ordinary tuples.
We can unpack them and iterate over them,
for example, and there's three additional
functions that ordinary tuples don't
have. The documentation covers these well,
but I'll give you an example of the
underscore replace function. Now
the additional functions and two data
attributes have names prefixed
with underscore. Remember, I mentioned earlier
in this video, that you can't use an
underscore before the field names, so
this ensures that there's no conflict
between plant.replace, referring to a
field called replace, and
plant._replace(), referring
to the function. So underscore replace is
a useful way to change the value of one
or more fields in the tuple. Named tuples
are immutable, but you can use the
underscore replace function as a short
and convenient way to
create a new named tuple with some values
changed. So let's have a look how
to go about that. So
on line eleven, I'm just gonna type print
parentheses, space out the output. Then
on line thirteen we'll start with example equals plants_list, then left square bracket,
0, right square bracket, print example. Then on line 15, example equals example._replace,
lifecycle equals Annual, single quote right square bracket.
Then we'll print example. So the Andromeda plant is an evergreen.
That's the value of its lifecycle field, so let's just run that.
Alright, so the Andromeda plant is an evergreen.
That's the value of its lifecycle field. This code prints
that out so that we can check, and then use the
underscore replace function to create a
new named tuple with the
life cycle set to annual. If we go scroll
over, we can see that. There's evergreen
on the first line of output, up here,
and it's changed then on the second line
of output to annual, and all the other
fields, note, are keeping their original
values. So we saw how to do something
similar with ordinary tuples, back in
section seven. This is a useful shortcut
and makes it more obvious what the code
is doing. You may want to use this
method if you've read records from a
database, for example. If the data changes, you can
update the tuple and write the changes
back to the database. Well, that's about
all I've got to say about named tuples.
We'll return to any and all in the next
video, and then use these named tuples in
some of the examples. See you in the next
video.